<H1>Project Mathematics S.3</H1>
<H1>Shamir's Secret Sharing</H1>

<H2>Introduction :</H2>
This project is the continuous assessment of the 3rd semester in IT at the HES-SO of Sierre.

<ul>
    <li>Students: <b>Milena Lonfat, Emilie Teodoro Do Nascimento, Jonathan Bourquin and Elias Borrajo.</b></li>
    <li>Professor: Jean-Luc Beuchat</li>
    <li>Course: 632-2 Mathematics</li>
</ul>



<H2>Functionality :</H2>
<h3>Tool 1 - Generate Parts</h3>
Java command line tool for generating and sharing a secret (Shamir's secret sharing)

Inputs: size of the secret, minimum number of shares to reconstruct the secret, total number of shares to generate

Outputs: the secret shares as well as any useful metadata for the reconstruction of the secret

<h3>Tool 2 - Crypt / Decrypt File</h3>
Command line java tool to encrypt and decrypt a document (text file, Word document,...) or an executable

Inputs: parts of the secret generated by the first tool (and possible metadata), message and operation to perform

Output: encrypted or decrypted message depending on the chosen operation



<H2>Objectives :</H2>
<ul>
    <li>Designing a mathematical library in Java</li>
    <li>Develop software based on mathematical libraries</li>
    <li>Apply the knowledge acquired in the first year programming courses</li>
</ul>



<H2>Manual :</H2>



<H3>Installation</H3>
Before use:
<ol>
    <li> Create an environment variable called "SHAMIR" specific to the user, 
         with the specific path on your machine to store the files. 
         Store them into a folder for an easier use. </li>
    <li> Java version to use : openJDK 17.0.1 </li>
</ol>

<H3>Use</H3>
<H4><u>Use 1: Accesing by console</u></H4>
<ul>
    <li>In the command prompt use the command "cd" to go in the directory where your jar is located</li>
    <li>Then use: java -jar "name".jar and enjoy</li>
</ul>

<H4><u>Use 2: Create a shortcut of the app</u></H4>
<ul>
    <li>Create a new text file containing "java -jar "name".jar", then register it as a ".bat" file</li>
    <li>Keep the ".bat" file in the same location as your ".jar" app</li>
    <li>Create a shortcut of this ".bat" file, and put it on your desktop</li>
    <li>Run your ".bat" file from the directory or with the shortcut and enjoy !</li>
</ul>

<H4>Tool 1 : Generate parts</H4>
<p>
The purpose of using this tool #1 is to generate shares containing codes in a file per person.

As input to this tool, you must give the number of shares you want to generate, the threshold of shares required to be able to reconstruct the secret with the codes, and a certain number of bytes which will be arbitrary between 16, 24 or 32.

The tool will generate the shares in the folder given via the environment variable when installing the app.
For each user, send him only a file of type "User_X.json".

After sending all the files to all the users, you can delete the folder generated by the app.
If you want to regenerate shares, make sure that the destination folder is already empty, that it does not contain any old undistributed shares.
</p>

<H4>Tool 2 : Encrypt & Decrypt</H4>
<p>
Tool #2 encrypts or decrypts a file, using the shares generated by tool #1.

As input it takes :
1) The path where the shares containing the codes to be assembled of each user are located.

2) The path where the file to be encrypted & decrypted is located.

3) You must specify when using the application if you want to encrypt "-e" the file or decrypt "-d" it

Notes:
The paths must be correct. A simple mistake can make the tool not work properly.
Example : 
``` C:\Users\myName\Desktop\ShamirsProjectStorage\User_1.json ```

The file to be encrypted can have any extension. .pdf .exe .pptx .txt, it does not matter.

Be careful!
Any file can be encrypted using shares.
But when decrypting the file, if you use a number of shares lower than the threshold you decided when generating the file, it will be impossible to decrypt the file.
So it is absolutely necessary to encrypt a file with a number of shares that is at least equal to the threshold. (nparts >= threshold).

In addition,
The same number of users is required to encrypt and decrypt the file.
Example:
◦ A secret is generated with a single t=3 and a number of shares m =5
◦ To encrypt, 3 out of 5 shares are needed to reconstruct the key (e.g. users 2, 3 and 4)
◦ To decrypt, one also needs 3 out of 5 shares, but not necessarily the same as for encryption (e.g. users 1, 4 and 5)


</p>

***

<H2>Mathematic library</H2>
The mathematical library is in the "ModularArithmetic.java" class and "LagrangeInterpolation.java"

<H3>ModularArithmetic.java</H3>
The "ModularArithmetic.java" is the class that will allow us to perform calculations using operations (methods) such as:
 addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, power, greatest common divisor, isPrime and modular inverse Euclidean algorithm.
As we can’t use the class bigInteger we had to initialized a modulo to 257 wich is the first prime number after 256.

For the addition, subtraction, and multiplication we use the "Math.floorMod" that returns the floor modulus of the int argument.

<H4>Division</H4>
We calculate : a * multiplicative inverse of b

<H4>Power - Never used for the project</H4>
If the exponent is <= 0 an arithmeticException is throw because the power can not be <= 0 it should be minimum 1 else we use a loop and the multiplication we created to calculate it.

<H4>Greatest common divisor</H4>
If b = 0 it return a.
Else it return the greatest common divisor of b and a modulo b.

<H4>IsPrime</H4>
Calculate if a number is prime or not, returns ture if it’s a prime number, false if it’s not.

<H4>Modular Multiplicative inverse</H4>
Multiplicative inverse of A modulo M
<ol>
    <li>Greatest common divisor GCD of value(a) & modulo(b). value >= modulo</li>
    <li>Coefficient of bezout set of Z : ax + by = g = gcd</li>
    <li>For modulo prime number & value(a) set of Z modulo base, replace in the equation a by m : mx + by = 1 --> return y = multiplicative inverse.</li>
</ol>
return the modular inverse of the value

<H3>LagrangeInterpolation.java</H3>
<p>The « LagrangeInterpolation.java » used to perform a Lagrange interpolation on an array of points.</p>
<ul>
    <li>Polynomial Interpolation: interpolation of a data set by the polynomial of lowest possible degree.</li>
    <li>Consider a set of k points (x0, y0), (x1, y1), …, (xk-1, yk-1) so that all values xi are distinct.</li>
    <li>There exists only one polynomial f(x) so that degree of f ≤ k - 1 and f(xi) = yi , ∀i ∈{ 0, 1, …, k - 1 }</li>
</ul>

Our method lagrange has two parameters Point[] f that is our "array of type Point" and "int n" that is our threshold.

With the call of our methods: division, multiplication, subtraction and addition create in our class modularArithmetic.java we can calculate it.

In a first for loop we compute the individual terms: term = f[i].y.

In a second for loop if j is different from i we calculate term= term * f[j].x / (f[i].x - f[j].x)

We calculate result += term and at the end return an int result.

***

<H2>Synthesis :</H2>
<table>
    <tr>
        <th></th>
        <th>Works</th>
        <th>Improvements</th>
        <th>Errors</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Generation parts</td>
        <td>OK</td>
        <td></td>
        <td>None</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Encrypt</td>
        <td>OK</td>
        <td></td>
        <td>None</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Decrypt</td>
        <td>OK</td>
        <td></td>
        <td>None</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Mathematic library</td>
        <td>OK</td>
        <td>Change the class lagrange interpolation to an abstract class</td>
        <td>None</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Picocli</td>
        <td>OK</td>
        <td></td>
        <td>None</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Testing</td>
        <td>OK</td>
        <td>Create each use case possible & imaginable to help maintaining it easier</td>
        <td>None</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
       <td>Other</td>
       <td>-</td>
       <td>create an User interface outside the console to be more user friendly with our customer</td>
       <td>-</td>
    </tr>
</table>



